[PD-1334] SAML Authentication Integration with Custom Group Attributes (#3261)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/testfairy/testfairy.md

Sauce Mobile App Distribution Public Cloud is available in the EU-Central-1 and US-East-1 data centers. The Private Cloud is available in various regions, customizable based on specific preferences. 

For more information, see [SSO](/testfairy/security/sso/sso-intro/), or [Private Cloud](/testfairy/security/private-cloud/).

## SAML Authentication Integration with Custom Group Attributes

> In modern enterprise environments, Single Sign-On (SSO) via SAML is a crucial component for secure, centralized access control. SAML Authentication with Custom Group Attributes, allows granular user role and site-level access management via your identity provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In modern enterprise environments, Single Sign-On (SSO) using SAML is a crucial component for secure, centralized access control. SAML Authentication with Custom Group Attributes allows granular user role and site-level access management via your identity provider.
```

> With this feature, authentication is handled through a SAML 2.0 identity provider, and user access is defined using custom group attributes passed within the SAML response. These attributes can be used to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this feature, authentication is managed through a SAML 2.0 identity provider, and user access is defined using custom group attributes passed in the SAML response. These attributes can be used to:
```

This design provides flexibility for organizations managing access across multiple teams or sites, while keeping configuration centralized.

### Structuring Group Attributes
Each group value in the SAML response is a string, but the format of that string determines how it's interpreted.

There are two formats:

**Site-Specific Format: site-name:role-or-group**

This format assigns roles or groups tied to a particular site. For example:

* site-a:admin means the user is an admin for Site A.
* site-b:marketing assigns the user to the “marketing” group for Site B.

If the second part of the string matches one of our reserved role keywords, it’s treated as a role. Otherwise, it’s interpreted as a group name.

**Global Format: role-or-group**

This format is used for roles or groups that apply across all sites. For example:

* admin means the user is a global admin
* group-b assigns the user to a global group named “group-b”

It’s worth noting that only one global role can be defined per user, and it must be explicitly stated.

### Reserved Role Keywords
To avoid ambiguity, we use a set of predefined, case-sensitive keywords to identify roles:

* admin
* account_manager

> * member

Reviewer: The "member" is only available for customers who request it. It's disabled by default. With that in mind, we should either explain it (which would be more complicated) or not mention it here. What do you think?

> * Tester

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* tester
```

    </saml2:Attribute>

```
### Single-site
Sample SAML XML Example 3:

```
<saml2:Attribute Name="groups" NameFormat="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:unspecified">
    <saml2:AttributeValue xsi:type="xs:string">admin</saml2:AttributeValue>
</saml2:Attribute>
```
Sample SAML XML Example 4:

```
<saml2:Attribute Name="groups" NameFormat="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:unspecified">
    <saml2:AttributeValue xsi:type="xs:string">admin</saml2:AttributeValue>
    <saml2:AttributeValue xsi:type="xs:string">group-b</saml2:AttributeValue>
    <saml2:AttributeValue xsi:type="xs:string">group-c</saml2:AttributeValue>
</saml2:Attribute>

```
## How We Apply Roles and Permissions

Once we receive and process these group attributes, they directly affect what the user can do within the system. Here's how roles translate into access:

* A global admin becomes a Site Manager, able to create sites, add admins, and assign account managers.
* Account Managers can invite site-specific admins.
* Admins can add testers.
* Testers have the most limited access, usually read-only or QA-specific functionality.

There’s also an approval system in place:

> * If a Site Manager tries to promote someone to global admin, the Account Owner must approve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If a Site Manager tries to promote someone to global admin, the Account Owner must approve it.
```

* Only the Account Owner can remove a Site Manager.

This layered model ensures that powerful roles don’t get assigned lightly.

## Important Rules to Follow
To ensure your SAML attributes work as expected, keep these rules in mind:

> * Case sensitivity is enforced. Site1 and Site1 are treated as different entities.

Reviewer: I'm not sure how best to present it, but the examples are the same right now and need to have different casing:
```suggestion
* Case sensitivity is enforced. `site1` and `Site1` are treated as different entities.
```
